# Blog for _Earnings Ratings_ project

I'm building a project from scratch and thought it would be cool to document my work, so here I am.

### Project description

I want to create a program that gets information about which companies are announcing earnings report on a specific date, and calculate how much return it's generated by buying stocks of theses companies some days before earnings are release, and selling some days after.

There are a lot of companies that report earnings every day, so it's quite impractical - and of course return is not guaranteed - to buy stocks for all of them. The choice of which stocks to buy will be based on analysts estimates. There are a lot of website, like "zacks.com", that give a ranking to a stock, depending if it's recommended to buy it, hold it, or sell it. These recommendations are based on long(ish) time return, but   often a well ranked company will see an increase in stock-value after reporting earnings. At least these is the assumption I want to test here: I'll build this workflow and apply it for some weeks to see how much return I would get.

P.S. of course "just" analysts recommendations are not enough good metrics to decide whether one should buy a stock or not, especially in this situation of short-term return, but I'll start implementing that and later on I can add new metrics, like companies related metrics (eg EPS), or even general public sentiment towards the company, by getting information from social media (twitter, reddit) for example.

### March 6th 2024

I started this projects some days ago, so there's a lot of stuff already coded, and the "MVP" is actually already working.

#### Code structure

A minimal, and first version, of the script I want needs to:
1. scrape the internet, and get all the companies that report earnings on a specific date
2. scrape the internet, and collect analysts rankings for all companies collected in step 1.
3. (after earnings report) analyze how much return is generated by buying stocks of well rated companies the day before earnings, and sell it the day after.

For **step 1**, I found that the best website to collect this data is _investing.com_.




